---
layout: post
title:  "Creating a Jekyll Blog on Github"
date:   2014-12-11
categories: github, jekyll, blog, howto
tags: github, jekyll, blog, howto
permalink: /jekyll-blog-on-github
---

My first blog post.  I figured it most appropriate to give a shout-out to Jekyll + Github; getting up and running was super easy.

Github is a repository hosting service with version control.  Github Pages provides free hosting for stuff in your Github repositories.  Jekyll is a static blogging platform.  Instead of using databases, Jekyll converts Markdown or Textile and Liquid templates into a complete, static website.  Fortunately, in addition to supporting regular HTML files, Github Pages supports Jekyll, meaning you can host your project in templates and Github Pages will do the rendering leg-work on the back end.  Very cool.

Here's what I did:
# <b>Forked a Jekyll theme that I liked.</b>  Good list to choose from at ["http://jekyllthemes.org/":http://jekyllthemes.org/].  I went with Travelog.
# <b>Create a "gh-pages" branch.</b>  Stuff in this branch gets hosted on Github Pages @ http(s)://&lt;username&gt;.github.io/&lt;projectname&gt;.  Since this is the only branch you'll be maintaining, go to Settings > Default branch and select "gh-pages".
# <b>Update links.</b>  Update baseurl in _config.yml to "/&lt;projectname&gt;".  Also fix any image links in the CSS files to make sure that they start with "/&lt;projectname&gt;".
# <b>Upload any new images you need with Git.</b> Command line or GUI, whichever you prefer.  Unfortunately, you can't upload images to Github via the web interface yet.

That's it.  Enjoy.

Other good links:
* ["https://help.github.com/articles/using-jekyll-with-pages/":https://help.github.com/articles/using-jekyll-with-pages/]
* ["http://tom.preston-werner.com/2008/11/17/blogging-like-a-hacker.html":http://tom.preston-werner.com/2008/11/17/blogging-like-a-hacker.html]
* ["http://www.smashingmagazine.com/2014/08/01/build-blog-jekyll-github-pages/":http://www.smashingmagazine.com/2014/08/01/build-blog-jekyll-github-pages/]
* ["http://redcloth.org/textile/":http://redcloth.org/textile/]
